Starting from a humble background and later becoming one of the greatest African American leaders, was Booker T. Washington. He became a leader when African Americans experienced social or political inequality and economic impoverishment. Thus, the immense responsibility to come up with a solution to this race problem lay squarely on his shoulders. However, Washington was a sell-out to his imagined community, the African Americans. His solution was fundamentally flawed and should be depicted as just a compromise.
Booker T. Washington was born in 1856 in Franklin County, Virginia to a Poor family. His mother a slave and his father white, it followed consequently according to the law of matrilineal Descent that he would inevitably be a slave. Though he desired to know how to read and write, during his early years, African Americans did not have this privilege. However, after the civil war and emancipation, the founding of black American schools awarded him the rare opportunity to get educated. Due to his poor background, Booker T. Washington had to work all day before walking to attend school in the evening. Booker T. graduated with high grades from the Hampton institute in 1875 before later in 1881 founding the Tuskegee Institute. Booker T. Washington would later on become the most powerful African American leader in the nation and receive large sums of money to support the Tuskegee Institute.

Washington's background was very significant in influencing the ideologies that he had which 
is later portrayed by the solutions he came up with for the problems facing the African
 American race. Washington's solution was however conservative, choosing rather to compromise 
 the political and social equality rights of African Americans than to fight for them. Through 
 this compromise, Booker T. was successful in creating a public "persona" that gained favor with
 both African and white Americans. He was merely a black politician telling white Americans what 
 they wanted to hear. Nevertheless, what he said had far reaching effects on the economic, social
  and political status of the "Negro race". 
 
 of social equality is the extremist folly and that progress in 
 the enjoyment of all the privileges that will come to us, must be
  the result of severe and constant struggle, rather than of artificial forcing."
Booker T. Washington with no doubt led a hard working exemplary life. His Atlanta
 speech was a major tipping point in the lives of black and white Americans in that
  his new ideologies gained acceptance from both the white dominated audience and black Americans. However, his solution to the race problem as presented in his speech was flawed. W.E.B. Du Bois, a major critic of Washington, emerging in 1903 with his book "The Souls of Black Folk" (including a chapter entitled "Of Mr. Booker T. Washington and others") was able to expose these flaws. Booker T Washington was a Sell-out to the black race. By Booker T. Washington only focusing on industrial education, he undermined the importance of exploring the diverse talents possessed by the numerous black Americans who now constituted a third of the population. Booker T.'s approach would only foster the distorted view that black Americans were an inferior race as compared to white Americans. How would black Americans not be subject to racial discrimination based on white supremacy if they weren't able to pursue higher education but only relied on industrial education? Washington's approach based only on industrial education was narrow and only insinuated by seeming to support false concepts such as social Darwinism and scientific racism.
By Booker T Washington completely ignoring the white south's reduction of Black political and civil status, he demonstrated that he had no regard for African American's social well-being and political ambitions. As their imagined leader, African Americans looked up to him to represent their political interests but Washington failed his community in this regard. Du   

Bois' criticisms of Washington were justified and his model which constituted fighting against civil inferiority and liberal educating the talented tenth among the "Negro race" was more effective than Washington's model. Du bois clearly stood for black people's political interests and by advocating for liberal education he demonstrated that he understood that their existed innumerable talents and capabilities among black people. 
Ida Wells would fit in Du Bois' model since she fought for the civil rights of black people which is clearly demonstrated by her unrelenting fight against lynching and the numerous articles she wrote in black newspapers seeking the disbandment of Jim Crow laws. However Jack Johnson on the other hand did not fit in either models. Jack Johnson neither strived for other black peoples' political or social equality nor did he fight for the race's economic prosperity through industrial education. However, Johnson only acted as if racism did not exist and publicly displayed his sexual preference for white women.
In the light of what has been discussed above, though with good intentions, Booker T. Washington had ultimately come up with a solution to the race problem which sold-out rather than saved black Americans. W.E.B. Du Bois' model would in contrast save the black race and cater not only for their economic wellbeing but also their social or political standing.


   